
                   U.S. GEOLOGICAL SURVEY DIGITAL DATA SERIES DDS-9

                           National Geophysical Data Grids:
                    Gamma-Ray, Gravity, Magnetic, and Topographic
                       Data for the Conterminous United States
                                           
                                           
                                          by
                                           
                                 Jeffrey D. Phillips
                                   Joseph S. Duval
                                         and
                                 Russell A. Ambroziak
                                           
                                           
                                           
                                         1993

                           U.S. DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
                               BRUCE BABBITT, Secretary
                                           
                                U.S. GEOLOGICAL SURVEY
                               Dallas L. Peck, Director
                                           

                                     For sale by

                                USGS Map Distribution 
                               Box 25286, Building 810
                               Denver Federal Center  
                               Denver, CO 80225       

                                Call: (303) 236-7476  
                                           
                                     A_README.1ST

                                      DISCLAIMER

          This Compact Disc-Read Only Memory (CD-ROM) publication was
          prepared by an agency of the United States Government.  Neither
          the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of
          their employees, makes any warranty, expressed or implied, or
          assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy,
          completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus,
          product, or process disclosed in this report, or represents that
          its use would not infringe privately owned rights.  Reference
          therein to any specific commercial product, process, or service
          by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise does not
          necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation,
          or favoring by the United States Government or any agency
          thereof.  Any views and opinions of authors expressed herein do
          not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States
          Government or any agency thereof.

          Although all data and software published on this CD-ROM have been
          used by the USGS, no warranty, expressed or implied, is made by
          the USGS as to the accuracy of the data and related materials
          and/or the functioning of the software. The act of distribution
          shall not constitute any such warranty, and no responsibility is
          assumed by the USGS in the use of this data, software, or related
          materials.  

          This CD-ROM has been produced in accordance with the ISO 9660 CD-
          ROM Standard and is therefore capable of being read on any
          computing platform that has appropriate CD-ROM driver software
          installed.  However, the access software used on the disc
          currently executes only under DOS on IBM or compatible personal
          computers.


                                       OVERVIEW


          This CD-ROM contains gridded geophysical data, images generated
          from the data, software for displaying and analyzing the images,
          software for processing potential-field (gravity and magnetic)
          geophysical data, and documentation files that describe the data
          and software.  The gridded data include gamma-ray data (uranium,
          thorium, and potassium channels), Bouguer gravity data, isostatic
          residual gravity data, aeromagnetic anomalies, topography, and
          topography with bathymetry.  These data are available in ASCII
          format under the ASCII directory.  This publication contains only
          data from the conterminous United States.

          The images on this CD-ROM include graytone and color images of
          each gridded data set, color shaded-relief images of the
          potential-field and topographic data, color composite images of
          the gamma-ray data, and color composite images of potential-field
          data painted on shaded and edge-enhanced topography.  These
          images are 8-bit data and can be imported for viewing by many
          different software packages, but the color display tables are
          only designed for DOS computers and displays.  The display and
          analysis software includes the ability to register images with
          geographic and geologic overlays, generate three-color composite
          images for display on a super VGA video system, generate
          perspective view images, and analyze images in five dimensions.

          The potential-field software on this CD-ROM can be used to
          extract subsets of the geophysical data, process them, and
          display them as images or contour maps.  The software can also be
          used to generate gridded data from point data, generate profiles
          from grids, and generate geological models from gridded or
          profile data.  This software is written in FORTRAN and, with
          minor modifications, can be adapted to a variety of computer
          systems.

          The documentation files reside under the directory
          DOSMENU\DOCFILES and are named with a suffix of DOC.  This
          directory also contains a WordPerfect 5.1 file (CDROM.WPS) that
          contains all of the documentation.

          This CD-ROM is released in the Digital Data Series of CD-ROM's
          produced by the U.S. Geological Survey.  This new publication
          series is intended to improve distribution of important earth
          science information to the public.  The disc contains the results
          of work performed by the U.S. Geological Survey.


                                     INSTALLATION


          If you have not already done so, run the INSTALL program by
          making the CD-ROM drive the active drive and typing INSTALL
          followed by pressing the <Enter> key.  Follow the instructions
          printed on the screen.  When the INSTALL program is finished, it
          will invoke the national geophysics (NATGP) menu program, and you
          will see a menu of your options.

          If you have previously run the INSTALL program and you have added
          C:\ to the PATH statement in your AUTOEXEC.BAT file, run the menu
          program directly by typing NATGP followed by pressing the <Enter>
          key.  If C:\ is not in your search path, you will have to type
          C:\NATGP followed by pressing the <Enter> key.  A menu of your
          options will appear on the screen.

